all right it is february 2021
and i'm gonna answer some ielts
questions and some unrelated questions
and i hope somebody has asked me about
aliens all right so if you have any
ielts questions
pop them into the comments below let's
get started
okay first question is from my old
friend hank
hank says hi jay thank you so much for
your training wrote my ielts test two
weeks ago and past
first time you are the best from new
zealand my first language is afrikaans
that's a good way to kick this off hank
that is
awesome to hear it's really great when
we get feedback from our students that
say they've passed their ielts and
especially if they've done it first time
well done here are
is focusing on writing an essay using
complex words and structures more
important
or writing error-free sentences more
good question here right so you've got a
bit of a balancing act here because on
test day you need to write a variety of
grammar
so that means you just need to use some
complex sentences and by
complex i mean like a technically i mean
that
like it needs to have a clause a witch
or that or
needs to have that subordinate clause at
the same time you need to make sure it's
accurate
so what you'll need to do in your
practice is start getting better at
writing those complex structures start
getting
faster at doing it so you're not
spending time worrying about accuracy
okay
saba jay i have already watched all
videos covering
reading strategies on e2 channel dealing
with match information part is it
right to read all paragraphs even when
the number of statements are less
it doesn't sound right i ask you to give
more explanation on this type
particularly
okay this is a great question saber so
right so you've got this set number of
paragraphs
you've got usually got fewer statements
or
more statements look whatever it is the
best thing to do is to read the
paragraph
understand the paragraph then find the
related statement remember that
sometimes you can use the statement more
than once
so paragraph a might be connected to
statement one and statement three for
example they might both relate to
paragraph
a okay keep that in mind maybe that
solves it for you
annie sayad thanks jay i want to tell
you that you look like jesse pinkman
from breaking bad
yeah i'm not sure i see the reference or
the similarities at all
next question is from walt walt says
jesse we need to cook
we need to cook up some good ielts
scores ladies and gentlemen
next question is from terry which is my
dad's name
weird writing if you make mistakes with
pen is deleting with two lines on them
acceptable
or lose points okay terry so
when you take the paper-based ielts test
and you do make a mistake
somewhere in your paragraph and you need
to cross it out you will not
lose points you do not have to write a
pretty
looking essay they're looking at the
substance not the style
in fact in one of the ielts that i wrote
i had to cross out the entire paragraph
and then draw this big arrow and it was
completely fine
cool next question is from rashida
hi jay sir i have a doubt that to study
in abroad probably in canada do we have
to give exams of ielts
and toefl what is different between them
why does college's website ask toefl
result is
toefl necessary with ielts for getting
admission or only ielts is enough
sorry it's being too long question thank
you for your answer
okay rasheeda so ielts and toefl are
equivalent
tests well if you're taking the ielts
academic anyway and
usually they can both be used either be
used for
university entrance or migration you
have to find out
it's very very unlikely that you have to
do both
tests you have to do one or the other
however
maybe a university only accepts toefl
results anyway
you'll have to find that stuff out but
good news is you'll just take
one of them scion asks
how to improve pronunciation does e2
language have a guided course with an
expert tutor
cyan this is a good question so what is
pronunciation it's
uh let's think about actually what it is
so pronunciation are the sounds that you
make in
english has 44 phonemes they are
individual
for example if you speak another
language who knows like tamil you'll
have some sounds that we don't have
in addition to the single sounds like
there are also consonant clusters like
pro
cro cle smur
for example this is where you put two of
those sounds together
in addition to that you've got this
other whole sort of
section of pronunciation around fluency
with pausing and word stress
sentence stress connected speech well
there's a lot going on
if you want to have clear pronunciation
we have a course
called speaking lab and what you'll need
to
do is go to another website called
e2school.com
and enroll in the speaking lab course
it's very inexpensive it's like
i think it's 9 or 12 or something like
that so
check it out on e2school.com and get
clearer with your pronunciation next
question is from
abiram abby asks is the
essay writing format of pte academic
similar to part two of ielts academic
writing can i use the same
learnings from pte for the ielts essay
the short answer is broadly yes
you can the pt academic essay structure
that we teach on e2language.com
is very similar to the ielts essay
structure
however the ielts essay requires you to
be a little bit more nuanced in your
response because the pte academic
essay is always argumentative
persuasively arguing for one side
the ielts question prompts differ like
there might be problem solution
or discuss the advantages disadvantages
etc
so the short answer is yes but
i do recommend that you learn
the ielts essay just to get that little
bit of nuance to improve your score
all right i am mickey mouse
looks like she has some good news i am
very grateful for this channel i took my
ielts exam
last january uh i got an overall eight
in my very first attempt you are most
fave to watch jay you are such an an
amazing
your videos help me a lot please
continue creating videos for everyone
you the best jay thank you so much nikki
that is
very good news to hear and as i
mentioned it's always good to hear from
e2 language students who pass their
ielts test especially the first time
around
if you want to be like nikki then you'll
need to prepare and the best place to
prepare
is e2language.com and right now we're
offering
10 percent off our ielts prep courses
if you use this code here you'll get 10
off you'll get access to the live
classes the practice questions the
writing feedback the tutorials
heaps and heaps of stuff at e2 check it
out
next question is from jemima
what is jay's talent and is he married
uh so jay is unmarried
and jay's talent is obviously teaching
ielts
and juggling
whosam asks how do i improve my skills
in listening
reading and writing at the same moment
it's a good question hussain you can't
really do them at the same
moment like simultaneously improve your
writing and listening and
reading okay these are discrete skills
there is some overlap of course with
vocabulary and grammar but
let's think about listening first in
order to improve your listening
abilities
you need to understand how spoken speech
works
because really what you're doing with
listening is listening to somebody
speak and when somebody's speaking
they're using the pronunciation the
consonant clusters which i mentioned
before
word stress sentence stress connected
speech all of this sort of magical stuff
that happens there
so that's the key to listening but also
of course vocabulary grammar and the
immediacy
of which you comprehend those words as
well so it does require here the next
one
for you to read okay so reading is about
building vocab
and actually just reading just
practicing reading just
continue make it a make it a routine a
habit
to read and to build out that vocabulary
as you go and to work
out the grammar there what does that
verb tense mean how does that work
writing is something that's really hard
to improve without feedback
i strongly encourage you especially for
an ielts test
to submit your essay through and have
somebody like an expert
give you feedback on it not just in
terms of grammar and vocab etc but
structure whether it's on topic
this is what we do at e2 language for
feedback and to improve your writing but
overall i'd say check out e2 school
because we do have
courses there and feedback
next question is from benro
who asks what if the topic given in
writing
isn't a known topic to me
okay so the first thing to know is that
the ielts essay prompts are always going
to be pretty
generic they're going to be general
social issues that don't require
specialist knowledge at all things like
how to reduce crime
or should people be able to smoke
cigarettes in cafes things that you
immediately go right
no because xyz
for example one of them that the last
essay that i wrote for ielts my fifth
attempt was
was actually about crime um should we
jail criminals for longer or is there
another way to reduce crime so
as soon as i say that ideas should start
to formulate in your mind where you'll
be
for or against that and why why not et
cetera so
i wouldn't worry too much about it you
don't need complex
philosophical ideas
bharat kumar hi jay what about spelling
mistakes
how can we correct them aha bharat my
man you're in luck
because we have a spelling course
on e2school.com check it out it's really
good but
on exam day if you're if you're
writing down a word right and you're
thinking to yourself i'm spelling this
incorrectly i just know it you're going
to lose
a point if you do spell it incorrectly
it's a part of the vocabulary criterion
so what you might want to do is actually
think to yourself what's a synonym that
means the same thing
and one that i can spell correctly
because maybe just use that
jimmy patel asks english movies yes or
no
starting with captions and you get
crazily confident when you don't need
them
need your thoughts jimmy i reckon that's
a bit of a secret weapon to be honest
uh the first thing you can do is watch
it with subtitles in your first language
that's helpful just to get a you're
probably beyond that actually
but certainly watching it with the
english transcriptions because it's
going to help your listening
because as i said before about learning
to listen
well requires you to understand spoken
speech
and there's a big difference between
spoken speech and written text
although they're supposed to be saying
the same thing the way we
speak is very different to the way we
write in that we
reduce things we contract things we chop
things out we blend things etc so
yeah english movies with transcripts in
english
really good idea raphaela
jay are you as cool as bananas
it's my new lingua franca now cool
bananas hahahaha
yeah i have no idea what cool bananas
means i just use it when i can't
think of something to say or if i i'm
trying to refrain from swearing
illami how do i join your
live it's on youtube or 700 question
marks
so illumi you can if you're in the right
place at the right time catch our
youtube live streams
or if you want to know exactly when
these happen
and in fact if you want them twice a day
go across e2language.com you can sign up
for free we give some
free live classes and if you upgrade
your account you'll get access to
even with the express package which i
think is about 60
i think you get 25 live classes so it's
like
2.20 per live class plus you get all the
practice questions the methodology
lessons everything so
have a think about that next question is
from
palavenova what is the best way to
overcome our fears
during the exams right
so exam day anxiety is a
genuine thing and it can impede your
performance
okay especially if your anxiety starts
to cloud your mind like if you're just
having
physical manifestations of stress you
know your hands are sweating your
heart's beating
stomach feels a bit funny it has
butterflies or
however stress or anxiety appears for
you
that's okay it doesn't matter everyone's
going to have some stress so please
don't try to have
no stress that's going to be impossible
except the stress that you're going to
have
because that bit of adrenaline that
you'll get will actually to help you to
concentrate and perform well if however
your anxiety is
flooding you to the point that you can't
really concentrate
things are getting a little bit
dreamlike then you need to sort of do
something about that
and i think a key to this is preparation
i think one of the reasons why people
freak out is because they
they don't feel ready or confident
confident right
so if you know something that really
engenders or brings about confidence the
more you know the more confident you'll
be
so for example you want to learn the
essay structures so you learn them
really well
and on test day you're not going to be
fearful of an essay prompt that's going
to get you by surprise
so there's that uh it's pretty tough i
mean i'd recommend like meditative
practices and breathing exercises but
this sort of stuff
you need to start doing long before the
exam it's not something you can just
start meditating the day before the exam
and have positive effects
so if your exam is in six months i
really would recommend downloading an
app like waking up for example it's a
good app
learn some of those meditative exercises
yoga
maybe go for a run before the exam uh
other things like having a big breakfast
is really helpful
empty stomachs are not good for anxiety
try and get a good night's sleep if you
can
try not to create new habits before the
exam just stick to your usual habits
unless your habits are really bad like
drinking trying to avoid that
do what you can but ultimately on test
day just accept the fact that you're
going to be anxious and it's totally
fine because it's only a couple of hours
of your life
dilshad hi jay i like your videos in
youtube and also registered in your site
e2
english e2 language but i have two
children first
three and a half years and second two
weeks old i'm really surging
with saving my spare time will you give
me some advice or special courses that
i'll be able to prepare and pass this
type of exam
in my own journey thank you in advance
i think what you're asking the ideal
shot is like the most efficient way to
prepare for your ielts
test okay so there's a couple of things
to say about that
one is you need to learn all of the
different task types
for ielts okay there's no way around
that because on
test day you if you see a reading match
features you need to know exactly what
to do
if you're doing ielts academic writing
task one you see three line graphs you
need to know exactly what to do
there's no getting around that okay
there's no magic there
so that's the first thing the overview
lessons on e2 language
then you will need to know how to
approach those question types that's the
methods lessons on e2 language
then you need to know how to apply the
methods to the questions to get the
right answer that's the practice
questions and the live classes so
you could if you want to spend like two
weeks on e2 just
cramming this stuff that's probably the
best way around
next question is from tanzilla tanzilla
asks
in the reading test when we have to
answer in capital letters
what is the way to write numbers in
digital or
numbers so good question so there'll be
a set of instructions that will
ask you or tell you how to write the
answer it'll say write no
more than two words and or a number
if you're writing a number write the
numeral okay um
if it's two words and a number then you
can write like
um three black dogs whatever it is
okay make sure you understand how to
read and understand those instructions
in the reading test because they can get
pretty tricky what does
right three words and or a number mean
write that down on a piece of paper and
figure it out
if you have any questions that you want
answered
on the ielts test or life in general
then pop them into the comments below
and don't forget to click the like
button
and the subscribe button while you're
there okay
next question is from richard richard
wants me to name as many ielts tasks
tasks as i can in 20 seconds
okay so the speaking part one two three
there's ielts academic writing task one
and writing task two there's general
writing task one and general writing
task two
in listening there's multiple choice
match features
map diagram label completion
short answer sentence completion i've
forgotten to
oh my god
okay i thought i'd do better than that
uh
a few weeks ago i made a video called
ielts tier list which you can check out
in the description below that goes
through each and every one of the ielts
tasks
it's better than me telling you next
question is from
manpreet manpreet asks
could we use informal words like mom dad
in an informal letter
okay so manpreet here is asking about
ielts general writing task one and
if you are writing an informal letter
that is you're writing a letter to a
friend or a
family member somebody whom you know
very well
yes you can use informal language that's
totally acceptable including
contractions
like weed or
jude or why can't i think of other ones
we are
jonas if you could interview anyone on a
podcast who would it be
hmm okay that's a good question
i reckon right now if i had the chance i
would speak to
david eagleman who's a neuroscientist
and he writes about consciousness
studies
i'd like to find out more about how them
find out more about how the mind works
or i'd focus in on language stuff so
maybe somebody like stephen pinker who's
like this famous
linguist and also talks about the mind
and the brain
those sorts of people are interesting i
think
aleandro wants to know i need
six in ielts general or 50 in pte which
one
should i take it's a good question
aleandro
uh there's sort of much of a muchness
there because you're doing ielts general
you need a six that's achievable pt
is an academic english test that the
language will be more complex the
vocabulary but you only need a 50 there
which is the equivalent of a six look to
be honest if i were you what i would do
is check out
a video that's in the description below
where we compare
the different tests ielts pt and toefl
we look at all the different task types
and you might want to watch that first
to get an idea of the sort of
things you have to do in each exam and
which one appeals to you most
oh i should also say make sure you take
the computer delivered
ielts if you can the paper-based one i
think
is much more challenging all righty
gurdeep what is the most important thing
to take care
of on the test day
hmm good question okay most people
fail ielts writing and the reason they
fail ielts writing is because they don't
take care of the criteria
that is they need to be you need to be
acutely aware of
writing on topic good structure
grammatical range that is exercising a
number of different sentence types
grammatical accuracy of course
vocabulary range that is a number of
different words you can't repeat and
repeat and repeat the same word
vocabulary precision anything else
anyway
that's it and that's also a form of
juggling you need to juggle that in your
mind while you write your essay in your
task 1.
mariha wants to know on average what is
the probability of getting
a 0.5 band increase in writing and
speaking in ielts general
inquiry on results okay
so what's an inquiry on results that is
you write your ielts test
and you think you've done very well yes
i smashed that one then you get your
results back and let's say you're
.5 bands short you wanted a 7 you got a
6.5
do you just accept that and take the
entire test again
especially if you've just missed out in
writing say or
do you pay 150 bucks or whatever it is
send it back and ask for a remarking
it's a good question
i've actually done it several times and
each i've done it three times
and each time they've increased my band
scores
the last time i took the ielts i got an
eight for writing the rest i got nine so
i've got an eight for writing and then i
thought you know what i'm going to send
it back because
i sent it back and they increased it to
8.5 so
yeah it's happened three times to me so
i recommend you do it if you're .5 short
in writing or speaking send it back take
a gamble why not
oh you get your money back if they do
increase your score
kavita wants to know how to score seven
in
reading okay so
reading well in order to score a seven
you need to get x number of questions
right out of forty i can't remember
precisely maybe like a 32 out of 40.
something like that so how do you get 32
marks out of 40. that means you can make
eight mistakes
well i mean you the the core of reading
is vocabulary you need to have a wide
vocabulary that's the critical thing if
your vocabulary is limited you're going
to find
reading impossible actually so there's
that you also need to have a good
grammatical understanding because
there's meaning imbued in the grammar
within
the paragraphs and the sentences okay
like modal verbs and certain verb tenses
uh also have meaning involved then you
need to understand the ielts
question types you know how do you go
about answering a true false not given a
match headings
or match features okay all of this stuff
can be done on e2language.com i
recommend that you sign up and join the
live classes
we'll take care of the heavy lifting for
you
daniel wants some advice
can you advise not advice advise
methods i can apply in writing task 2
and having difficulty starting
all right daniel yes okay for writing
task two it's
really essential that you use a
structure
and i really recommend the e2 language
structures that is the structure for the
intro the body paragraphs
and the conclusion and for the body
paragraphs there are two structures
single idea and double idea okay it's
essential that you know this
long before test day and that you
practice this
some of the videos for the of the
methods lessons are here on youtube
all of them are on e2language.com and
all of the money to language.com
are the most up-to-date ones i there's
really there's no magic
trick here you have to learn the
structure and you have to practice and
apply the structure
once you learn the structure it's not
too bad the worst thing about ielts is
actually
first going how the hell do i write an
essay
okay once we teach you that intro those
body conclusion
body and the conclusions you're like
cool i know how to do it give me any
question prompt i'll write you a
great essay good news uko
i hope you've got some good news here
uco thanks jay for your videos they have
been very useful in my improvement but
please
how do i take the mock so i can know
where to do more inputs
thanks cool yes uh e2 language
has two really good high quality
computer based mock tests that's all you
need to know
check them out they're great you get
feedback on your writing task one and
two
and for the speaking you actually take a
online on
zoom speaking simulation and you get
really good feedback
okay that's what you need to work from
is the feedback
uh so you know what to improve on where
to focus
aya what would your auto buy
what would your auto what would your
autobiography be called
my autobiography would be called a speck
of dust
gurgeet is it possible to score a band
9 in ielts writing
okay this is the million dollar question
and this is what i
attempted to do five times in a row i
took the ielts test
five times in a row to see if i could
get perfect nines across the board
i could get nines for listening reading
and speaking
i could not get a nine for writing the
highest i got was 8.5
uh and all alex could get also the
highest she could get was 8.5 as well
the only person i've ever seen who got
an ielts nine in writing
uh was an e2 language student actually
she was a doctor
uh she got a perfect nine for everything
but that is one
person out of about i don't know
150 000 i don't know pretty hard
harwinder how can i assess my own
writings
and my individual level harwinder i hate
to break it to you but
you kind of can't not with the
writing and speaking anyway you can't
really assess your own level you can
certainly take reading and listening
tests and check the key and see what
score you got out of 30 or 40.
that's fine but for writing and speaking
you need an expert to give you
feedback and that's what our mock tests
are for
check them out here we go here's a good
one from ritu
hi you're so cool
thanks ritu
drun reb how is the speed reading
technique will affect my ielts score
all right cool okay so speed reading is
actually quite a complex little
phenomenon that you do there's one form
of speed reading where you actually just
scan your eyes across and they call it
sub vocalization that means that you're
not saying the words in your mind you're
almost just
looking okay that's one form of speed
reading if you like
they also call that scanning it's when
you're looking for a particular word or
a particular phrase to fill a gap for
example
in ielts you can't really speed
sometimes that scanning or that speed
reading is critical because you're like
all right i need to find that noun
phrase to fill that gap i saw it before
you really do need to read ielts
passages
to some degree of depth okay
because you need to understand the
meaning and that means vocalizing it in
your mind that is reading it reading it
reading it
you can speed up your reading skills
okay and this
requires practice and it requires it's
like it's like running a marathon you
start out you're pretty slow you speed
it up you speed it up you speed it up
okay
so again practice be conscious of
what's going on cognitively with you and
think about it
nirvana mitta hey jay
does appearing in ielts from a small
town where there are less english
speakers or metro city make any
difference
well this is a good question this is a
similar question to the question of
should i go to a country
where english isn't the main language to
take my ielts test and i
think look this there could be
some truth in that a tiny fraction of
truth flying overseas is a pretty crazy
idea
i would recommend actually going to a
smaller testing center not because it
might boost your score
but because it's just a little bit more
relaxing i've taken
one of the ielts tests i took there were
800 people taking the test on that day
it was like at a convention center it
was huge it was it was intense i don't
really like big crowds
another ielts test i took paper-based
one there were about 200 people which
was better
another ielts test i took was a computer
delivered ielts test i think there were
like 12 people and that was awesome
so yeah if you find a smaller testing
center i recommend it
santiago what is the most embarrassing
thing you have ever done
okay let me tell you a little story when
i was in grade
four so i was about what was i'm like
eight years old or something
there were two boys a couple of years
older than me
who were like the nasty bullies and at
lunch time i walked up to the door of
the lunchroom where all the kids were
and they dacked me and i cried
and then they got in trouble daria
is there a list of most common topics
for semester to be
asked in either speaking or writing part
um okay daria i recommend the topic
toolkits on e2 language they cover the
most
common themes of the essays and the
writing etc so
they're part of your course on
e2language.com
mr b how to get motivated for ielts
retake
yes mr b i hear you when you get your
results back from ielts and you have
been
unsuccessful it's pretty devastating
it's like oh deflating
because you know you're going to have to
go through that process again okay
if you didn't prepare properly then it
shouldn't come as a great surprise to
you because this test is hard and it
requires preparation
so second time round do it properly
prepare
well and again i recommend
e2language.com
we do the heavy lifting in the live
classes there's a
teacher it's twice a day they do the
teaching
you do the sitting back going i get it
faust jay i'm really grateful to your
team what are the first steps of moving
to advanced level
the second question what is your weak
point in in the
in the english language or is it
flawless
thanks in advance okay so i'll start
with the second question as you heard i
just
made a complete mess of that reading i
went blah blah blah
so is my english flawless no native
speakers
often make small grammatical mistakes
when they speak
fewer when they write
sometimes my language is just on fire
and i can just
reel off these amazing sentences i'm
like whoa some days i wake up and
there's just
the language is like thick milkshake
stuff
just it's not coming out properly uh
yes but i've also spent a lot of time
looking at the english language and
understanding the grammar and
purposely building my vocabulary etc
just because i find it fun
what's your first question okay how do
you move to an advanced level
it's a good question so when most people
learn english they sort of get most
people
sort of stop at an intermediate level
very few people
push their english language skills to an
advanced level you know
very few english language uh learners
ever get to an ielts eight if you're at
that level you're
you're a phenomenon you're a microscopic
percentage
um how do you do it ah
yes so there are three ingredients to
language vocabulary
grammar and pronunciation they are the
fundaments
of language once you get those right you
have to continue to build those
out into their sort of more nuanced
things less common words
less common grammar more refined
pronunciation
than well i know where you live
that's cool uh i don't know where you
live
but come around and have a cup of tea
seywak you didn't respond to my question
about how to become an ielts examiner
i actually don't really know if you
google it i think you'll find out
um yeah
amanpreet how can i add new chunks or
phrases
i got to know while speaking okay so
first of all that's a good idea so when
you learn vocabulary you're not just
learning
single words try to learn the
collocations or
phrases right so collocations like
completely satisfied or excruciating
pain
a surge of anger accept responsibility
so these are natural sounding phrases
now
after you have become aware of them you
see them you've read them you've
listened to them then you need to start
using them in your speech and it will
certainly improve your vocabulary score
on test day
fatima asked me pineapple on pizza
no okay junior wants to know
jay how can i keep a girlfriend if i'm
always studying for ielts
junior i want to ask you how can i keep
a girlfriend if i'm always teaching
ielts
i mean wants to know would you rather
have hands for feet
or feet for hands
uh i think i'd keep my hands where they
are
and have hands for feet
maryam what's the coolest fact you know
okay so one thing i've been thinking
about recently
is the nature of reality and that it may
just all be
a hallucination in fact i think it
actually is according to scientists
a hallucination and it may actually be
made of consciousness not solid objects
annie wants to know jay
if you were an animal what would he be
i would be a i'd have to be a bird of
some description
maybe an eagle okay so hopefully i
answered your question there if i didn't
put your question into the comments
below and remember that there's a little
discount happening on e2 language
courses if you use this promo code to
get 10
off my name's jay i'll see you soon
[Music]